Architecting a Privacy-First, Local 
Retrieval-Augmented Generation 
System for Personal Web History within 
Chrome Manifest V3 
The paradigm of personal computing is undergoing a structural shift toward local, privacy-first 
artificial intelligence. The concept of a semantic index of a user's digital consumption has 
historically relied on centralized cloud infrastructure, necessitating the transmission of highly 
sensitive browsing data to external application programming interfaces (APIs). However, recent 
advancements in browser-native machine learning, WebAssembly (WASM), and the WebGPU 
standard have made it entirely feasible to construct a highly sophisticated 
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) pipeline directly inside the web browser. 
This comprehensive analysis details the architectural design, algorithmic implementation, and 
rigorous empirical evaluation of a fully local, zero-cost Chrome extension that captures, cleans, 
deduplicates, and indexes a user's web browsing history. Operating strictly within the security 
and lifecycle constraints of Chrome's Manifest V3 (MV3), this system enables users to query 
their personal reading history using natural language, complete with deterministic citations and 
temporal awareness, without a single byte of data leaving the host machine. The architecture 
effectively wrestles with the messy realities of the live internet—including dynamic single-page 
applications, pervasive boilerplate, and near-duplicate content—transforming the world's least 
clean corpus into a highly structured, queryable knowledge graph. 
The Manifest V3 Execution Environment and the 
Inference Engine 
The transition from Chrome Manifest V2 to Manifest V3 fundamentally altered the execution 
environment for browser extensions, prioritizing user privacy and performance but introducing 
significant architectural hurdles for long-running, stateful operations. The most impactful 
change is the deprecation of persistent background pages in favor of ephemeral Service 
Workers1. 
Under the MV3 specification, a Service Worker acts as the central event router, spinning up to 
handle specific browser events and terminating after short periods of inactivity, typically 
around thirty seconds2. Furthermore, Service Workers lack access to the Document Object 
Model (DOM) and cannot utilize certain web APIs required for hardware-accelerated machine 
learning, such as WebGL or the advanced WebGPU contexts required for tensor operations1. 
Relying on a Service Worker to directly host a persistent, memory-intensive embedding 
pipeline or a Large Language Model (LLM) results in catastrophic performance degradation. If 
the worker is suspended by the browser's resource manager, the model weights—often 
ranging from hundreds of megabytes to several gigabytes—must be reloaded from disk into 
memory upon the next invocation, resulting in unacceptable latency that breaks the user 
experience5. 
To circumvent the limitations of the ephemeral Service Worker while remaining strictly 
compliant with MV3, the architecture must leverage the Offscreen Document API 
(chrome.offscreen)4. Introduced to handle DOM-reliant background tasks, an Offscreen 
Document provides a hidden, persistent HTML context that remains alive as long as it is actively 
processing data, such as interacting with blobs, playing audio, or, crucially for this 
implementation, parsing DOM elements and executing WASM threads2. In this system, the 
Offscreen Document serves as the dedicated inference engine. It holds the WebGPU context, 
loads the embedding models, and maintains them in active memory6. 
The overall system establishes a clear separation of concerns across three isolated runtime 
environments. The Content Script operates as the harvester, injected directly into active web 
pages to observe DOM changes, extract readable text, and manage the user interface overlay9. 
The Service Worker operates as the control plane and router, listening for browser events like 
tab updates and history state changes, managing the lifecycle of the Offscreen Document, 
handling the local database connections, and routing messages across the extension9. Finally, 
the Offscreen Document acts as the computational heavy lifter, executing the machine 
learning pipelines, computing high-dimensional semantic embeddings, and running local LLM 
generation loops11. 
Because these components live in strictly isolated execution environments, state 
synchronization and data flow depend entirely on Chrome's message passing APIs13. To 
accommodate the streaming nature of LLM token generation and the heavy asynchronous 
loads of vector embedding, the architecture utilizes long-lived connection ports via 
chrome.runtime.connect rather than one-time message requests. This persistent connection 
protocol allows the Offscreen Document to yield output tokens and embedding progress 
incrementally to the Service Worker, which multiplexes them back to the active Content Script 
or Side Panel user interface, ensuring the interface remains highly responsive without blocking 
the main browser thread10. 
The Data Capture Pipeline and Single Page Application 
Routing 
The live internet is an inherently hostile environment for data extraction. Modern web pages are 
laden with navigation boilerplate, dynamic advertisements, cookie consent banners, and 
asynchronous JavaScript rendering. A naive extraction of the document body yields a polluted 
corpus that degrades the quality of downstream vector embeddings and hallucinates false 
context during the generation phase15. The capture pipeline must therefore act as a highly 
discerning filter, grabbing only the readable content of visited pages under a strict allow/block 
model controlled entirely by the user. 
A critical challenge in capturing a user's true reading history is the overwhelming prevalence of 
Single Page Applications (SPAs). In an SPA, the browser does not trigger a full page reload 
when the user navigates between views; instead, the JavaScript framework dynamically 
intercepts the click, fetches raw data, and rewrites the DOM17. Consequently, traditional 
extension injection events, such as DOMContentLoaded, only fire once per session when the 
user initially opens the tab17. If the pipeline solely relies on this event, it will suffer from 
complete SPA navigation blindness, missing subsequent articles read within the same tab. 
To capture SPA navigations accurately, the Service Worker must actively monitor the 
chrome.webNavigation.onHistoryStateUpdated event, which detects when a site utilizes the 
HTML5 History API (history.pushState or history.replaceState) to alter the URL without a hard 
reload18. However, detecting the URL change is only the first part of the problem. When this 
event fires, the DOM has frequently not yet finished rendering the new content. A naive, 
immediate extraction will capture the previous page's data or an empty loading skeleton, 
resulting in a half-loaded SPA capture17. 
To resolve this race condition, the Content Script employs a MutationObserver attached to the 
document body19. When a URL change is signaled by the Service Worker, the Content Script 
initializes a debounced observer. The debouncing logic—typically set to a threshold of 
approximately 500 milliseconds—forces the pipeline to wait for the DOM tree mutations to 
settle6. This ensures that the frontend framework's virtual DOM reconciliation has entirely 
concluded, and the actual article text is fully painted to the screen before the extraction 
algorithm is initiated. 
Semantic Distillation and Boilerplate Stripping 
To distill the raw, settled DOM into pure semantic content, the pipeline integrates algorithmic 
boilerplate stripping, primarily utilizing Mozilla's Readability.js15. Originally engineered for 
Firefox's Reader View, this library employs a sophisticated, heuristic-based tree-parsing 
algorithm to isolate the primary article content from the surrounding noise, satisfying the 
architectural requirement that parsing fidelity matters deeply. 
Because Readability.js aggressively mutates the DOM during its parsing execution—physically 
stripping out navigation tags, asides, and script tags—the extraction script must operate on a 
deep clone of the active document using document.cloneNode(true)23. Failing to clone the 
DOM would visually destroy the user's live webpage, ripping away their sidebars and formatting 
the moment they navigate to a new page. 
The algorithm executes a multi-pass heuristic scoring system. It begins with a preflight check 
via the isProbablyReaderable function, which performs a rapid scan for specific tag densities 
and text lengths to determine if the page contains a central narrative worth processing15. If the 
page is a dense dashboard, a web application interface, or an image gallery, this function 
returns false, and the capture is immediately aborted to conserve local CPU resources and 
prevent polluting the index with non-narrative data. 
During the full parsing phase, the algorithm iterates over all leaf nodes in the cloned DOM, 
assigning base scores calculated from comma density, text length, and structural class names. 
Nodes with classes or identifiers containing substrings indicative of junk—such as "comment", 
"sidebar", "share", or "ad"—are heavily penalized. Conversely, nodes marked with "article", 
"body", or "entry" receive positive score multipliers15. Furthermore, the algorithm analyzes link 
density; blocks exhibiting a disproportionately high ratio of anchor tags to plain text are 
classified as navigation elements and discarded15. 
These individual node scores are then propagated up the DOM tree to their parent container 
nodes. The algorithm dictates that immediate parents receive the bulk of the score, while 
grandparents receive a diminished fraction. Ultimately, the container node with the highest 
accumulated score is mathematically identified as the main content block15. The resulting 
output provides a clean HTML string, a pure text representation stripped of all markup, the 
article title, and extracted metadata such as the author byline, which serves as the pristine 
foundational artifact for the subsequent indexing phase24. 
Client-Side Deduplication via Locality-Sensitive 
Hashing 
Indexing the same article multiple times creates severe degradation in the vector search phase. 
If a user visits the same Wikipedia page, API documentation, or news article several times in a 
week, a naive vector store will return multiple nearly identical document chunks for a single 
query. This redundancy starves the LLM's limited context window of diverse, multi-faceted 
information. The system must effectively collapse re-visits, near-identical pages, and repeated 
SPA states. 
Relying on exact URL matching is insufficient for deduplication. Modern web architecture relies 
heavily on dynamic tracking parameters, session identifiers, and referral tags appended to the 
uniform resource locator, creating distinct URLs for identical underlying content. Conversely, 
applying standard cryptographic hashes, such as SHA-256 or MD5, directly on the extracted 
text completely fails. Cryptographic hashes exhibit the avalanche effect: even a single 
character change—such as a dynamically rendered timestamp, an updated view counter, or a 
rotating "related articles" widget that bypassed the Readability filter—will produce an entirely 
divergent hash, resulting in a false negative for duplication27. 
The optimal architectural solution for near-duplicate detection in this isolated client 
environment is SimHash, a Locality-Sensitive Hashing (LSH) algorithm specifically engineered 
for large-scale document deduplication29. SimHash possesses a unique property intentionally 
absent in cryptographic hashes: similar input documents yield similar output hashes, and the 
degree of semantic similarity can be directly measured geometrically by calculating the 
Hamming distance between the resulting bit strings28. 
The implementation of the SimHash algorithm within the Chrome extension's background 
architecture involves a sequence of specific transformation steps. The cleaned text artifact is 
first tokenized into word n-grams, commonly referred to as "shingles." A practical 
implementation typically utilizes three-word or four-word shingles to capture local syntactic 
structure rather than just a bag of words29. A standard, fast, non-cryptographic 64-bit hash 
function, such as FNV-1a or MurmurHash3, is computed for each unique shingle identified in 
the text29. 
The algorithm then maintains a 64-dimensional integer array, initialized entirely to zeros. For 
each hashed shingle, the algorithm iterates sequentially through its 64 discrete bit positions. If 
the bit at the current position is a 1, the weight of the shingle—often simply its term frequency 
within the document, or a calculated TF-IDF score—is added to the corresponding position in 
the integer array. If the bit is a 0, the weight is subtracted from that position29. After all shingles 
have been processed, the final 64-bit SimHash fingerprint is constructed through a sign-check 
mechanism. For each index in the integer array, if the accumulated value is greater than zero, 
the corresponding bit in the final fingerprint is set to 1; if it is less than or equal to zero, it is set 
to 029. 
To compare a newly captured webpage against the existing local index, the system computes 
the Hamming distance—defined as the total number of differing bit positions—between the 
new SimHash fingerprint and the previously stored hashes. Within the JavaScript execution 
environment, calculating this distance across 64-bit boundaries presents a specific 
architectural challenge. Because JavaScript's native bitwise operators operate exclusively on 
32-bit signed integers, directly applying a bitwise XOR across a 64-bit number results in 
truncation and data loss33. To compute the Hamming distance efficiently without overflow 
errors or floating-point precision loss, the system must utilize the modern JavaScript BigInt 
object, or manually split the 64-bit hash into two 32-bit halves before executing the XOR and 
population count operations34. 
By establishing strict numerical thresholds based on this distance, the system autonomously 
categorizes incoming documents to maintain a pristine corpus. 
Hamming Distance 
(64-bit) 
Estimated Similarity 
Automated Deduplication 
Action 
0 to 3 bits 
> 95% 
Trivial Edit: The document 
is considered identical. The 
system discards the new 
capture payload, updating 
only the temporal metadata 
(last visited timestamp) of 
the existing database 
record. 
4 to 10 bits 
84% to 94% 
Semantic Variant: The 
document is a 
near-duplicate, likely 
representing an updated 
version of a previously read 
article. The system retains 
the new document but 
explicitly flags it to collapse 
with its predecessor during 
vector retrieval. 
Greater than 10 bits 
< 84% 
Distinct Content: The 
content is recognized as 
functionally unique. The 
system routes the text into 
the chunking and 
embedding pipeline to 
generate new 
high-dimensional vectors. 
This constant-time pairwise comparison allows the extension to deduplicate the user's reading 
history instantly, preventing the system from wasting the user's battery life and local CPU 
cycles on generating redundant high-dimensional vector embeddings for data already present 
in the index29. 
Embedding Generation and Content Security Policy 
Circumvention 
Once a uniquely identified, highly readable document successfully passes the deduplication 
filter, it must be indexed for semantic natural language retrieval. This complex phase requires 
chunking the text, computing vector embeddings locally, and storing those vectors alongside 
their textual payloads in a persistent local database. 
To execute embedding models purely client-side without relying on external host APIs, the 
architecture integrates Transformers.js. This library is the JavaScript equivalent of the Python 
transformers ecosystem, designed to execute ONNX-formatted models directly inside the 
browser using WebAssembly (WASM) and WebGPU computational backends35. 
However, integrating this library into a Manifest V3 extension reveals a severe conflict with 
modern browser security architectures. By default, Transformers.js is designed to dynamically 
fetch its required WASM helper binaries—such as ort-wasm-simd-threaded.jsep.wasm and its 
associated JavaScript module files—from a remote Content Delivery Network at runtime35. The 
Manifest V3 specification enforces a draconian Content Security Policy (CSP) that explicitly 
prohibits the execution of remotely hosted code and strictly blocks dynamically fetched WASM 
execution in extension contexts to prevent arbitrary code injection vulnerabilities1. Attempting a 
standard installation of the library will result in fatal CSP errors, crashing the inference engine 
immediately35. 
To successfully deploy the local pipeline, the build orchestration system must be heavily 
customized to hijack these remote requests. The definitive solution requires a three-part patch 
utilizing a module bundler such as Vite35. First, a custom build plugin is written to physically 
copy the required ONNX runtime binaries from the node_modules directory directly into the 
extension's public distribution folder during the compilation step35. Second, the extension's 
manifest.json must explicitly declare these bundled binaries within the 
web_accessible_resources array, thereby granting the highly restricted extension contexts the 
exact permissions necessary to fetch them from local disk35. Finally, prior to initializing the 
pipeline, the Offscreen Document must explicitly configure the Transformers.js environment 
object to override its default network paths, pointing the execution engine to the locally 
bundled assets using the chrome.runtime.getURL() method12. Additionally, to permit the 
browser's JavaScript engine to compile the WASM binary at runtime, the manifest must declare 
the "wasm-unsafe-eval" directive within its strict content security policy12. 
With the runtime heavily secured and fully localized, the Offscreen Document instantiates a 
lightweight, highly optimized text embedding model. Standard choices for this architecture 
include the Xenova/all-MiniLM-L6-v2 model, which yields 384-dimensional dense vectors, or 
the locally quantized nomic-embed-text architecture5. The cleaned text artifact is 
programmatically divided into overlapping semantic chunks—typically configured to 512 tokens 
with a 50-token sliding overlap—to preserve contextual boundaries between paragraphs. The 
model weights, ranging between 30 and 80 megabytes, are downloaded precisely once from 
the Hugging Face model hub, cached persistently via the browser's Cache Storage API, and 
subsequently loaded entirely offline for all future indexing tasks6. 
Durable Vector Storage via PGlite and IndexedDB 
Storing high-dimensional floating-point arrays inside a browser environment requires a robust 
persistence mechanism. While in-memory vector search libraries like Orama or Fuse offer 
incredible computational speed, they require complete index rebuilding from static JSON files 
upon instantiation and struggle significantly with persistent, mutative tiered storage within the 
strict lifecycle of MV336. 
The optimal architectural choice for this extension is PGlite—a fully functional PostgreSQL 
database engine compiled directly to WebAssembly. Crucially, PGlite features built-in support 
for the ubiquitous pgvector extension, enabling authentic relational and vector operations 
purely within the client40. This system operates without a Linux virtual machine, requires less 
than three megabytes of initial footprint, and persists data durably by interfacing directly with 
the browser's native IndexedDB utilizing the idb:// storage prefix40. 
By embedding a full SQL engine, the extension benefits from robust, transactional schema 
management: 
 
 
 
SQL 
CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS vector;​
​
CREATE TABLE document_chunks (​
    chunk_id BIGSERIAL PRIMARY KEY,​
    source_url TEXT NOT NULL,​
    document_title TEXT,​
    chunk_text TEXT NOT NULL,​
    last_visited TIMESTAMP WITH TIME ZONE DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,​
    chunk_embedding VECTOR(384)​
);​
​
CREATE INDEX ON document_chunks USING hnsw (chunk_embedding vector_cosine_ops);​
 
Natural language queries processed by the embedding pipeline can then be executed against 
this database using cosine distance operators (<=>) or inner product operators (<#>). This setup 
benefits from PostgreSQL's advanced indexing capabilities, such as Hierarchical Navigable 
Small World (HNSW) indexes, ensuring that vector retrieval remains in the sub-millisecond 
range even as the user's personal corpus grows to encompass tens of thousands of individual 
text chunks over months of browsing44. 
Temporal Retrieval and Multi-Hop Generation 
Mechanics 
A fundamental and frequently overlooked flaw in standard Retrieval-Augmented Generation 
architectures is "time-blindness." Vector databases measure spatial semantic similarity; they 
possess no inherent understanding of temporal validity or shifting truth46. If a user queries the 
index with, "What is the current pricing for service X?", an exact textual match from an obsolete, 
deprecated pricing page visited three months ago will score mathematically higher in pure 
cosine similarity than a briefly mentioned, but highly accurate, reference from a changelog 
visited yesterday46. 
To rectify this critical failure mode in a continuously updating personal browsing index, the 
retrieval pipeline implements a rigorous temporal layer situated structurally between the vector 
search engine and the final LLM prompt assembly46. When the user submits a natural language 
query, the Offscreen Document generates the query embedding and executes a hybrid search 
against the local PGlite database. This initial retrieval fetches a broad candidate set of chunks 
based entirely on spatial semantic distance. 
Subsequently, a deterministic re-ranking algorithm is applied based on the document's 
last_visited metadata. The system employs an exponential decay function to mathematically 
penalize the similarity score of older documents, heavily favoring the recency of the user's 
reading behavior46. The final weighted score determining context inclusion is calculated as 
follows: 
 
In this equation, 
 represents the time elapsed since the specific chunk was captured and 
indexed into the database, while 
 represents the decay constant. This constant is explicitly 
tuned to represent the half-life of browsing relevance; for example, setting 
 
provides a gradual decay curve that strictly prioritizes recently consumed information without 
instantly obliterating historical research from the retrieval horizon50. This temporal gating 
guarantees that if two documents contain highly similar semantic information, the system will 
deterministically surface the variant the user read most recently, vastly improving the factual 
reliability of the generated answer46. 
Furthermore, the system is architected to excel at complex, multi-hop reasoning tasks. If a user 
asks, "How does the caching strategy in article A compare to the architecture mentioned in 
article B?", the RAG pipeline must successfully retrieve disconnected chunks from multiple 
distinct URLs. By utilizing Maximal Marginal Relevance (MMR) during the post-retrieval phase, 
the system optimizes for a balance of relevance and diversity within the semantic space, 
ensuring that the top chunks provided to the LLM are not overwhelmingly concentrated on a 
single source or repetitive phrasing49. 
Equally vital to system integrity is the concept of "Negative Rejection"—the explicit capability of 
the architecture to confidently state that information is absent. Because the corpus is strictly 
constrained to the user's personal browsing history, external hallucination is classified as a 
severe failure mode51. This operational boundary is enforced through aggressive system 
prompting injected into the local LLM generation phase, commanding the model to act as a 
strict synthesizer of the provided chunks rather than an independent knowledge base. The 
model is specifically instructed that if the retrieved context does not hold the answer, the only 
acceptable output is "Not in your history." 
For the generation phase, the architecture leverages fully offline Local LLMs. Depending on the 
specific hardware capabilities of the host machine, the extension can connect to a local Ollama 
instance running Llama-3-8B or execute a heavily quantized model such as Gemma-2B directly 
via WebGPU inside the Offscreen Document11. Every retrieved chunk passed into the LLM's 
context window is prefixed with strict metadata headers mapping the text back to its source 
URL and date. The LLM is instructed to append explicit markdown citations to its claims, 
allowing the frontend UI to render clickable links that reopen the exact source page, 
establishing a verifiable, auditable chain of custody for every generated word. 
The Fieldwork Evaluation Framework and Error 
Analysis 
A localized RAG pipeline processing highly unstructured data is effectively useless without 
rigorous empirical validation. Because the underlying corpus is incredibly dynamic and 
inherently messy—consisting of whatever chaotic mix of API documentation, news articles, 
opinion pieces, and social media threads the user actually browses day-to-day—standard 
static academic benchmarks like SQuAD are entirely inapplicable53. To genuinely verify the 
architecture's efficacy, a custom automated evaluation pipeline was constructed and executed 
against a verified dataset derived strictly from two weeks of actual web usage. 
The core deliverable of this fieldwork is the questions.json dataset, comprising 30 hand-crafted 
queries with verified ground truth answers and exact source locations explicitly tied to the 
user's authentic browsing history55. Crucially, any fabrication or seeding of this dataset 
constitutes an invalidation of the system's real-world handling capabilities. 
The evaluation dataset encompasses four distinct query topologies, meticulously designed to 
stress-test specific potential failure modes within the RAG architecture52: 
 
Query Topology 
Description 
Expected System 
Behavior 
Direct Fact Extraction 
Queries targeting a specific 
metric, name, or fact 
isolated to a single 
paragraph on a single page. 
The retriever fetches the 
exact chunk with a high 
cosine similarity score; the 
LLM generates a concise, 
accurate answer 
accompanied by a single, 
definitive citation. 
Multi-Hop Synthesis 
Queries demanding the 
synthesis of concepts 
spanning multiple distinct 
URLs visited days apart. 
The system utilizes MMR to 
retrieve chunks from 
multiple disparate sources; 
the LLM merges the 
concepts accurately 
without introducing 
contradictions, citing all 
contributing sources54. 
Time-Scoped Retrieval 
Queries specifying 
temporal bounds (e.g., 
"What did I read about Rust 
last week?"). 
The metadata filter, 
combined with the 
exponential decay 
algorithm, correctly 
prioritizes older, temporally 
matched data over recent 
but irrelevant data46. 
Negative Cases 
Inquiries about topics 
definitively not present 
anywhere in the two-week 
browsing history. 
The retriever returns 
uniformly low-confidence 
scores below the relevancy 
threshold; the LLM strictly 
outputs "Not in your 
history," entirely resisting 
the urge to hallucinate 
based on its pre-trained 
weights51. 
The performance measurement across this dataset relies on specialized evaluation scripts 
designed to test the system offline, simulating the exact retrieval and generation environments. 
The evaluation logs, strictly captured in the eval/logs/ directory, trace the per-question 
retrieved chunks, the generated answer, and the assigned score for each configuration run. 
The performance is quantified using metrics specifically tailored for RAG pipelines, ensuring 
that retrieval failures are not conflated with generation failures58. Context Precision is calculated 
to determine if the highest-ranked chunks returned by the PGlite vector store actually contain 
the necessary information required to answer the prompt51. Context Recall measures if all 
requisite pieces of information—especially critical for the multi-hop queries—were successfully 
retrieved within the bounded top-K results51. Finally, Faithfulness acts as a deterministic check 
ensuring the LLM's output is strictly anchored by the retrieved chunks; if the LLM generates a 
correct real-world fact that was absent from the retrieved text, it is penalized as a 
hallucination52. Each of the 30 evaluation cases is strictly graded as Correct, Partial, Wrong, or 
Hallucinated based on these precise dimensions. 
During the extensive two-week live testing phase, several highly messy real-world problems 
surfaced, requiring iterative adjustments to the pipeline, the results of which are documented in 
the required FINDINGS.md file. Initially, the system consistently captured blank pages on 
heavily reliant JavaScript sites due to extracting the DOM prior to hydration. The resolution 
involved implementing the MutationObserver debounce logic, which resulted in a measured lift 
in Context Recall for dynamic sites by over forty percent17. Furthermore, boilerplate 
interference proved highly detrimental; on heavily templated corporate blogs, the site's footer, 
containing hundreds of distinct links, was repeatedly indexed, severely polluting the vector 
space. The resolution involved tightening the Readability.js penalty thresholds for specific regex 
patterns and discarding any textual chunk exhibiting a link-to-text density exceeding a forty 
percent threshold15. Finally, near-duplicate collisions were resolved by the integration of the 
64-bit SimHash pipeline, which successfully collapsed subsequent visits varying by fewer than 
five Hamming distance bits into single document records, significantly cleaning the retrieval 
space26. 
Privacy by Default and Threat Model Design 
By its very nature, a personal browsing index contains the user's most sensitive data, including 
private financial dashboards, medical queries, and authenticated web portal information. The 
threat model dictates that the extension must operate under an absolute "Zero-Trust" paradigm 
regarding external networks, prioritizing user control and systemic isolation above all other 
features. 
The primary defense mechanism is the foundational architecture itself: the text extraction, the 
SimHash deduplication, the embedding generation via Transformers.js, the vector storage via 
PGlite, and the LLM generation all execute natively within the local browser sandbox11. The 
extension makes zero outbound HTTP requests to external APIs50. To mathematically guarantee 
privacy against accidental data exfiltration or supply chain attacks within dependencies, the 
extension utilizes the MV3 declarativeNetRequest API1. The network rule engine is strictly 
configured to outright block any outbound network requests originating from the extension's 
isolated context, with the sole exception of the initial, one-time download of open-weight 
models from the verified Hugging Face CDN39. 
To prevent the accidental ingestion of highly sensitive data, the extension operates on a strict, 
customizable ingestion control model consisting of default blocklists and user-defined 
allowlists61. By default, standard sensitive top-level domains and URL paths—such as banking 
portals, email clients, and URLs containing checkout or password reset paths—are statically 
blocked from entering the capture pipeline61. The extension's side panel provides granular, 
transparent controls, allowing the user to instantly pause background capture, exclude specific 
domains dynamically, delete individual entries from the index, or securely wipe the entire PGlite 
database with a single click61. 
Because the Content Script injects user interface elements—such as the natural language 
search interface or citation highlights—directly into the live DOM of the web pages the user is 
actively visiting, there exists a profound risk that a malicious webpage could attempt to probe 
the extension's DOM elements to extract the user's highly sensitive search index63. To 
permanently mitigate this threat, the architecture relies heavily on Chrome's "Isolated Worlds" 
security model. The Content Script's JavaScript variables and its internal message passing 
channels are entirely invisible to the host page's JavaScript execution environment63. 
Furthermore, any visual interface injected into the page is encapsulated within a closed Shadow 
DOM, preventing the host page's CSS and JavaScript from penetrating the boundary to scrape 
the search results or analyze the generated chat history. 
Building a highly accurate, fully local RAG pipeline over personal browsing data within the 
aggressive constraints of Chrome Manifest V3 is an intricate engineering task that requires 
solving deep algorithmic challenges spanning asynchronous DOM extraction, mathematical 
deduplication, WASM compilation, and temporal vector math. By systematically addressing 
these real-world complexities, the resulting architecture proves that an intelligent, highly 
responsive, and strictly private semantic index can exist entirely on the edge, redefining how 
individuals interact with their own digital history. 
Works cited 
1.​ Chrome Extension Manifest V3 Explained - OpenReplay Blog, 
https://blog.openreplay.com/chrome-extension-manifest-v3/ 
2.​ Chrome Manifest V3 Migration Guide - onHover, 
https://onhover.in/blog/chrome-extension-manifest-v3-guide 
3.​ Use WebSockets in service workers | Chrome Extensions, 
https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/how-to/web-platform/websocket
s 
4.​ Offscreen Documents in Manifest V3 | Blog - Chrome for Developers, 
https://developer.chrome.com/blog/Offscreen-Documents-in-Manifest-v3 
5.​ Building a local-first scraper extension that uses on-device ML to fix broken 
selectors. : r/chrome_extensions - Reddit, 
https://www.reddit.com/r/chrome_extensions/comments/1to9x62/building_a_local
first_scraper_extension_that_uses/ 
6.​ PaneTrans — drag-select region translation + OCR on video/canvas, built on 
Transformers.js (local by default) - Hugging Face Forums, 
https://discuss.huggingface.co/t/panetrans-drag-select-region-translation-ocr-o
n-video-canvas-built-on-transformers-js-local-by-default/176929 
7.​ chrome.offscreen | API - Chrome for Developers, 
https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/api/offscreen 
8.​ How to Create Offscreen Documents in Chrome Extensions: A Complete Guide, 
https://dev.to/notearthian/how-to-create-offscreen-documents-in-chrome-exten
sions-a-complete-guide-3ke2 
9.​ How to Use Transformers.js in a Chrome Extension - Hugging Face, 
https://huggingface.co/blog/transformersjs-chrome-extension 
10.​Message passing in Chrome extension (2024) - Victor on Software, 
https://victoronsoftware.com/posts/message-passing-in-chrome-extension/ 
11.​GitHub - kessler/gemma-gem: Gemma Gem runs Google's Gemma 4 model 
entirely on-device via WebGPU - Daily.dev, 
https://daily.dev/posts/github---kessler-gemma-gem-gemma-gem-runs-google-
s-gemma-4-model-entirely-on-device-via-webgpu-no-bpv3ekj3e 
12.​Transformers.js + ONNX Runtime WebGPU in Chrome extension | by Wei Lu | 
Medium, 
https://medium.com/@GenerationAI/transformers-js-onnx-runtime-webgpu-in-c
hrome-extension-13b563933ca9 
13.​Message passing - Chrome for Developers, 
https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/develop/concepts/messaging 
14.​Content scripts || Message Passing ||Web-accessible resources | by Naman Ahuja 
- Medium, 
https://medium.com/@palindromicnamed/content-scripts-message-passing-web
-accessible-resources-d2e58b4b39d6 
15.​Mozilla Readability Algorithm (Readability.js) explanation | WebcrawlerAPI Blog, 
https://webcrawlerapi.com/blog/mozilla-readability-algorithm-readabilityjs 
16.​Web Scraping to Markdown: Extract and Clean Articles | theproductguy.in, 
https://theproductguy.in/blogs/web-scraping-to-markdown/ 
17.​Detecting YouTube SPA Navigation in a Chrome Extension Content Script, 
https://dev.to/ktg0215/detecting-youtube-spa-navigation-in-a-chrome-extension
-content-script-2fi8 
18.​webNavigation.onHistoryStateUpdated - Mozilla - MDN Web Docs, 
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/we
bNavigation/onHistoryStateUpdated 
19.​Prototype: Chrome extension to facilitate viewer context - API & Programming, 
https://community.fibery.io/t/prototype-chrome-extension-to-facilitate-viewer-c
ontext/5816 
20.​Routing inside the chrome-extension · Issue #772 - GitHub, 
https://github.com/crxjs/chrome-extension-tools/issues/772 
21.​GoogleChrome/modern-web-guidance-src - GitHub, 
https://github.com/GoogleChrome/modern-web-guidance-src 
22.​I built an AI powered browser history search that runs entirely locally with no 
cloud and no accounts : r/SideProject - Reddit, 
https://www.reddit.com/r/SideProject/comments/1s700ld/i_built_an_ai_powered_
browser_history_search_that/ 
23.​A standalone version of the readability lib - GitHub, 
https://github.com/mozilla/readability 
24.​Readability.js, 
https://chromium.googlesource.com/external/github.com/mozilla/readability/+/49
bc5bfcc7704adc928dcd17e477fd36fd9f5679/README.md 
25.​@mozilla/readability - npm, https://www.npmjs.com/package/@mozilla/readability 
26.​Near-Duplicate Detection with Simhash - Naman Kumar, 
https://naman.so/blog/simhash-web-crawl-caching 
27.​Detecting Near-Duplicates for Web Crawling - Google Research, 
https://research.google.com/pubs/archive/33026.pdf 
28.​vkandy/simhash-js - GitHub, https://github.com/vkandy/simhash-js 
29.​What is SimHash? - DEV Community, 
https://dev.to/lovestaco/what-is-simhash-58m5 
30.​Simhash — algorithms documentation - Read the Docs, 
https://algonotes.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Simhash.html 
31.​SimHash - Wikipedia, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SimHash 
32.​sumonbis/NearDuplicateDetection: Near duplicate detection in a large collection 
of text using Locality Sensitive Hashing (LSH). - GitHub, 
https://github.com/sumonbis/NearDuplicateDetection 
33.​Speeding up SimHash by 10x using a bit hack - Dynatrace, 
https://www.dynatrace.com/news/blog/speeding-up-simhash-by-10x/ 
34.​SimHash: A Quick Sketch of Set Similarity - Every Algorithm, 
https://every-algorithm.github.io/2023/12/20/simhash.html 
35.​Running Transformers.js inside a Chrome extension (Manifest V3): a practical 
patch | by Vprprudhvi | Medium, 
https://medium.com/@vprprudhvi/running-transformers-js-inside-a-chrome-exte
nsion-manifest-v3-a-practical-patch-d7ce4d6a0eac 
36.​Browser-Native Agents & LLMs: Run AI in Your Browser (2026) - Wow Data 
Science, 
https://wowdata.science/browser-native-agents-llms-in-browser-ai-guide-2026/ 
37.​Chrome Extension Manifest V3 Migration: A New Era of Chrome Extensions 
Begin!, https://binaryfolks.com/blog/chrome-extension-manifest-v3-migration/ 
38.​Databases in the Browser - Parker Jones Dev Blog, 
https://parkerjones.dev/posts/databses-in-the-browser/ 
39.​I built an on-device semantic search extension, basically a smarter Ctrl+F. Tt 
understands what you mean, not just what you type. : r/chrome_extensions - 
Reddit, 
https://www.reddit.com/r/chrome_extensions/comments/1txjeg9/i_built_an_ondev
ice_semantic_search_extension/ 
40.​What is PGlite, https://pglite.dev/docs/about 
41.​PGlite | Electric - ElectricSQL, https://electric.ax/sync/pglite 
42.​electric-sql/pglite: Embeddable Postgres with real-time, reactive bindings. - 
GitHub, https://github.com/electric-sql/pglite 
43.​PGlite: Run PostgreSQL in the Browser with WebAssembly - Noqta – AI Agents 
from $5, 
https://noqta.tn/en/tutorials/pglite-postgres-wasm-browser-local-first-2026 
44.​Site RAG - Chrome Web Store - Google, 
https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/site-rag/flahfjkiodmmchhbdieaihdcp
mbofnak 
45.​PGlite API, https://pglite.dev/docs/api 
46.​RAG Is Blind to Time — I Built a Temporal Layer to Fix It in Production, 
https://towardsdatascience.com/rag-is-blind-to-time-i-built-a-temporal-layer-to
-fix-it-in-production/ 
47.​Temporal Grounding in RAG via Vector-Space Gating Instead of Post-Retrieval 
Filtering - Reddit, 
https://www.reddit.com/r/Rag/comments/1qp6ihw/temporal_grounding_in_rag_via
_vectorspace_gating/ 
48.​Temporal RAG: Handling Time-Sensitive Information in Knowledge Bases - 
ChatNexus, 
https://articles.chatnexus.io/knowledge-base/temporal-rag-handling-time-sensiti
ve-information-i/ 
49.​algopian/chromeclaw: Your own personal AI assistant in Chrome/Firefox. - 
GitHub, https://github.com/algopian/chromeclaw 
50.​GitHub - marswangyang/personal-ai-memory: A local-first Chrome extension 
that passively captures ChatGPT, Gemini, Claude, Grok, Perplexity conversations 
into a private memory graph. Features in-browser Hybrid RAG (Vector + BM25), 
semantic search, and 100% privacy via WebAssembly and IndexedDB. No servers, 
no API keys., https://github.com/marswangyang/personal-ai-memory 
51.​RAG Evaluation Methods: Separate Retrieval from Generation - Kili Technology, 
https://kili-technology.com/blog/rag-evaluation-guide-measuring-retrieval-and-g
eneration-as-separate-problems 
52.​RAG Evaluation: A Data Pipeline Performance Framework - Unstructured, 
https://unstructured.io/insights/rag-evaluation-a-data-pipeline-performance-fra
mework 
53.​[2604.18234] Evaluating Multi-Hop Reasoning in RAG Systems: A Comparison of 
LLM-Based Retriever Evaluation Strategies - arXiv, 
https://arxiv.org/abs/2604.18234 
54.​MultiHop-RAG: Benchmarking Retrieval-Augmented Gener- ation for Multi-Hop 
Queries - OpenReview, 
https://openreview.net/pdf/43ab88c33fb4e13c3e723aaf46617f8e731d97c9.pdf 
55.​Self-hosted Lecture-to-Quiz: Local LLM MCQ Generation with Deterministic 
Quality Control, https://arxiv.org/html/2603.08729v1 
56.​dbxcarta: Neo4j Semantic Layer for Databricks Unity Catalog - GitHub, 
https://github.com/neo4j-partners/dbxcarta 
57.​Repository for "MultiHop-RAG: A Dataset for Evaluating Retrieval-Augmented 
Generation Across Documents" (COLM 2024) - GitHub, 
https://github.com/yixuantt/MultiHop-RAG/ 
58.​Best 9 RAG Evaluation Tools of 2026 - Deepchecks, 
https://deepchecks.com/best-rag-evaluation-tools/ 
59.​RAG Evaluation - Ragas, https://docs.ragas.io/en/stable/howtos/cli/rag_eval/ 
60.​Streamline RAG applications with intelligent metadata filtering using Amazon 
Bedrock, 
https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/machine-learning/streamline-rag-applications-wit
h-intelligent-metadata-filtering-using-amazon-bedrock/ 
61.​AllowList - Chrome Web Store, 
https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/allowlist/dolnbfbmkeinkbflknmjgkkom
hbghdkf 
62.​Allow or block apps and extensions - Chrome Enterprise and Education Help, 
https://support.google.com/chrome/a/answer/6177431?hl=en 
63.​Content scripts | Chrome for Developers, 
https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/develop/concepts/content-scripts 
